From Hanselman it's dot com.
It's Hansel minutes, a weekly
discussion with web developer and
technologists. Scott Hanselman. This is
Lawrence Ryan announcing show number one
78. Recorded live Thursday, September 3rd, 2009.
Support for Hanselman. This is
provided by Tellerik rad controls.
The most comprehend It's a
suite of components for windows
forms. Yeah, Usp.net web applications
online@wwwdottelerik.com. In this episode, Scott
talks about the visual studio
plugin code rush with Mark Miller.
Hi, this is Scott Hanselman
and this is another episode
of Hansel minutes. And I'm
sitting down today with Mark Miller,
from developer express, the famous
architect of code, rush, and
refactor. How's it going, Mark?
It's going well, Scott, how
are you doing? I'm not
doing too bad. Good. I,
I wanted to talk to
you because I got an
interesting email from a guy
who was trying to decide
whether he would use code
rush or a tool called
ReSharper and both of these
tools plug into visual studio
and, and, and change it
in some, in some fundamental
way. Could you maybe me
start by explaining what the,
what your tool does and
then your competitor ReSharper is
kind of a as a
similar thing. And the reason
I bring up with sharper
is that code rush is
kind of my favorite and
kind of my favorite little
tool like this, but I'm
interested in how you write
something like this. So, so
let's talk about first, what
it does, and then I
want to get into some
technical details about what exactly
you had to do to
make it happen. Okay. Well,
the essence behind coders is
to help you write code,
see the code navigate to
the code faster, through navigate
through the code faster. So
it's essentially visualization code creation
and navigation are the main
areas that it helps you
with. And anything that kind
of falls into those categories,
including kind of, I guess
what I would call outside
of the box ideas in
terms of how we can
make people write code faster
are, are certainly considered. And
if they're useful and functional
and deficient, they put their
put into the product. So
the product kind of encapsulates
those things to give you
some more specific examples. Part
of the product is refactoring
tools. So coders includes refactor
pro, which has about a
hundred, 185 refactorings in it
that cover a lot of
all the languages we support
C plus plus C sharp,
visual, basic JavaScript, asp.net. So
you got refactorings in all
those areas and more XAML
too, I should mention XAML
as well. And, and then,
and then in addition to
the refactorings, you've got a
code declaration tool. So if
you need to, if you're
doing like TDD or a
consume first development, where you
write the consumption code first,
then based on, on clues
at the consumption code, we
can then make the declarations
for you. A simple example
is if you have like
my instance.my new property equals
false, you can declare my
new property as a Boolean
type. There is a, that's
a simple example, but they,
of course it can get
very, very complex and sophisticated
where, where the inference in
terms of the type based
on the assignment is, is,
is evaluated at while you're
working in writing the code.
So let me, let me
interrupt your advertisement because I
want to talk about that's
a lot of stuff. So
your tool does everything. It's
like a Swiss army knife,
but it's to be clear
to that, to people who
maybe haven't used tools like
this before it's living inside
visual studio, right, where this
whole thing is in process,
there's no little code rush
dot exe that pops out
right, Right into, and to
make it, you know, make
things more intelligence. Like, for
example, if I have an
assignment to something I need
to actually evaluate that assignment,
you know, add, add, add
design time, essentially while you're
writing the code, not at
runtime. And so, and so
we have to have a
sophisticated, you know, ability to
do that. And it's essentially
the same as what IntelliSense
uses inside of visual studio
to be able to infer
types and, and, and things
like that. So, so there's,
there's a lot going on
in the background while you're
working and, and yes, it
is inside of visual studio.
It's it's go ahead. What
do you hook in, I
mean, this is, this has
been working since 2003, 2005.
I'm actually know since 2002.
We've actually we've we shifted
in 2003, but it was
working for 2002 when we
shipped it in 2003. So,
okay. So since the very
first version of visual studio
for.net and it hooks in
through the, the out in
technology and the, the visa
package technology Sip is a
visual studio, integration partner integration.
Yeah. I think that's right.
It's integration program or partners
or something like that. I
think that's what it is.
Yeah. And, but basically it's
a sophisticated way to hook
into visual studio and extend
it. And, and so, so
that's the first entry point.
And then, and then there's
a number of other points
where we connect in, in,
in, in the versions of
visual studio up through 2008,
because we do some things
that, that visa does not
allow like, like painting on
the editor, for example. So
when you, for example, do
a refactoring like inline temp,
where it takes a temporary
variable and inlines it you'll
see us paint on the
editor will cross out the
declaration for the temporary variable
and give you a little
indication that that's going to
be moving down. Okay. So
I want to dig into
this. So forgive me a
little bit as I steer,
as I steer you around.
Cause I know you've got,
if you've, haven't met Mark Miller,
he has his massive head
and a huge amount of
information inside said head. And
it can be, it can
be very tricky because the
man has a huge amount
of information he wants to
get out very quickly. So
we know each other well
enough. I think you'll forgive
me if I say no,
you're fine. I usually jump
in the middle Anyway. So
I want to understand, I
I've written a little add
ins before and when I
little add ins, I mean,
I've added a menu, I've
added a button and things
like that. And this is
all using the older comm
based stuff. I think it
was called eye extensibility too,
or something like that. Is
that, is that right? The
DTE is, I think what
I'm, I'm familiar with the
environment. Yeah, that's right. Yes.
Yep. Wow. DTE. That's really
old. Yeah. I think it's
designed time environment. Maybe. I'm
not sure even what, that,
I don't remember what it
stands for. So you've got
a, you get your plugin
at a very, very low
level and you kind of
get your hooks into visual
studio, not at the level
that I was doing where
it's like add a toolbar,
but it's at some more
fundamental level and you really
start messing around with, with
a lot of stuff you
have to, like you said,
paint to the right, you
know, paint. Do they want
you painting on the text
editor or is there an
official way to do that
or are you just, Well,
there's not an official way
to do it, but they
do want us to do
it because, you know, we
add value to visual studio.
I, well, I say they
want us to, I think
maybe unofficially, they want us
to do that because it
adds value at exit excitement.
People are like, Hey, can
I do that too? And,
and it actually, I think
significantly influenced the direction of
visual studio 2010 based on
what we could do in
2008, what we were able
to do. So, so, you
know, yes, we hook in
using the officially sanctioned mechanisms,
use the term, you use
the term mess around. And
I like to, I would
replace that word with carefully
constructing a safety net. That's
what would, what I would
replace that word with lots
of Point, because you're doing
things that are really out
there in the sense of
animations, painting on a scrolling
background that you really have
no business painting on. Cause
they don't give you a
fake. You said no official
hooks to say, right, paint,
a pretty arrow over this
XML content. Right? So to
make all this work, there's
a lot of things going
on in the background that,
that can compose this safety
net that I'm, that I'm
talking about. So for example,
in, in, you know, up
through 2008, we've got, we've
got a subclass in going
on. So we subclass class
the window we see when
windows messages are coming in
and based. And, and, and
based on what messages come
through that actually goes in
and influences the safety net
in terms of what we're
showing you. So the other
thing is, you know, just
figuring out the positions of
all the characters on the
screen. For example, when we,
in that example, I mentioned
earlier where I talked about
inline temp and we do
a strike through, we cross
out that we cross out
the, the declaration. Well, we
have to know exactly where
the declaration is on the
screen in order to get
that nail that correctly and
their subtleties, there are actually
a lot of subtleties in
terms of getting that calculation,
right? Because the font can
change and other factors can
change as well. That changed
line height and character position.
So, so yeah, there was
a lot of challenging stuff
that we had to write
it. I remember when this
was some of the first
stuff we did Scott, and
as I recall, it took
us like a good weeks
of solid development time before
we got to a point
where we felt like we
accurately knew where all the
characters were on screen. So
let me, let me interrupt
for a second because this,
this is a significant thing
that if you're not familiar
with code rush or tools
like it, as you can
probably figure it out by
now, it really integrates with
the IDE and does a
lot of stuff such that
it's kind of fundamental to
the experience. One of the
things that I like about
code rush, and I, I
say this as a, just
a listener understands, I've been
a fan boy and a
friend of yours for a
million years. And I've been,
I tell people about code
rush, but you don't have
any code. Rush has no
relationship with the podcast. You
guys don't give me a
sack of money. Actually. You've
given never given me anything
in ever. You've actually taken
things from me, Mark. But
so we, we have no
relationship. I'm not trying to
Right. I let you ride
a segway once. And that
was about it. That was
about it. Yeah. I think
you got me a diet
Coke one time. Did I?
No, no. That was at
a conference from a free
vending free day. Oh yeah.
The free one. Yeah. The
point I'm making is I'm
a fan of code rush.
No more. I just want
to make sure that you
understand that I'm talking about
this because I think it's
interesting, but what's interesting about
code rush is that there's
a lot of what, what
people will call eye candy,
but I call it good
user interface and user experience
design. One of the things
that, COVID one of the
examples that I want to
understand, and maybe you can
walk me through, this is
that you've got a lot
of these refactorings right. One
of them is reorder parameters.
So what I want to
blow somebody's mind with code
rush, I'd go over to
a function and I've got
a string Y a date
Z as nice as parameters
to the method. And I
put the cursor over it
and I hit the, what
I call the, you know,
the refactor button. I think
it's teal date on my
machine. Cause it's a button
I never push. Right. Then
suddenly those three parameters get
highlighted and I can use
the left arrow in the
Mount and the right arrow
to move them, to reorder
them. So that in itself
is interesting. Actually, the only
one of those parameters is
highlighted, but you get arrows
showing you which way you
can move it. And then
the arrow keys and they
move, right. I can move
left and right. And those
parameters will move so that
I can go X, Y,
Z Y X. Right? Yay.
Well, we're on a audio
podcast. You can't see this,
but literally if I hit
the right arrow, the index
will jump up and make
a little froggy hop over
to where a string Y
is. And then string, Y
will rush away while a
is simultaneously jumping over. So
it's this completely unexpected experience,
Right? This animation moves them.
You, you see them actually
move the text, actually move
smoothly as they re exchanged
positions. Right? And for, for,
for old timers on the,
on the show, it makes
me, it always made me
think of, of the CD
ROMs of the, the early,
early nineties, where it was
like a mist or the
sound of things where it
was like, you'd have a
video that you'd have a
plain background, which in this
case, it's the text editor.
And then you'd have a
video maybe inside of a,
a picture frame on the
wall or whatever. And they
were using these tricks where
the video was seamlessly integrated,
or at least as best
they could. I'm talking like
quick time pops up in
a three 20 by two
40 hole and they try
to make it look like
the whole screen is active.
Yeah. But it's only that
little area. Yeah. That's kind
of it's to some degree,
a similar trick that what
we're doing there, we're, we're
painting directly on the window,
right on that, on that
JDAI, you know, canvas. And
we are, we're doing that
at, you know, we're animating,
so we're doing it updating
it pretty frequently, but we're
also taking care of a
lot of other things. For
example, if you have word
wrapping turned on, we need
to know where that's going
to go. Right. And that
might be an option. Like
for example, in VB, you
know, having word wrapping on
is, is, is not that
uncommon of an option to
have. And so we have
to support word wrapping and
we also have to support
what happens if you're changing
positions with another parameter that's
off screen, right. Cause if
it's off screen, we need
to actually scroll, scroll horizontally.
So you can now see
the new position. So it's
a combination Scott of that
kind of painting trick, but
also being aware of where
everything is and scrolling if
necessary to make that happen.
And I want to throw
in why we do this,
right? Because it's like, you
know, it's this kind of,
whenever I see eye candy,
I, my first thought is,
well, it's, I consider it
as a, as possibilities that
really do. We just really
make eye candy or is
there some functional purpose behind
it? And usually I get
past the first question pretty
quickly with Ono and there
is a functional purpose. And
in this case, there is
if, if, if we take
away that animation and we
move instantly, it's hard to
see what just happened. And,
and unless you totally are
expecting it, right. If you
say, Oh, I know what's
going to happen. And I,
I hit the key and
instantly it jumps, then you're
maybe okay. And comfortable with
that. But if we show
you the animation, then you,
it totally confirms visually what
just happened. In fact, if
you look at new UIs
that are coming out, like,
for example, I like looking
at the iPhone UI a
lot and they've got animation
all over the place there.
If I delete, for example,
a picture, I actually see
the picture kind of gets
sucked down into the garbage
can, right. For example, on
the iPhone. So it it's,
it's this, you know, somebody
worked on this animation and
the reason they did it
is because it serves a
purpose. It's not simply eye
candy. You get confirmation that
the piece was deleted and
you feel good about it
because you actually saw it
go down into the trashcan.
Just like it happens in
real life when you throw
stuff away. Yeah. I guess
it's very interesting. It's an
interesting idea. What happened? What
would happen if when I
was throwing trash away in
real life, I picked up
my arm and I threw
the trash and then the
paper disappeared from my hand
and into the trash. It
would bite. It might take
me a second to go,
okay, wait a second. Where's
the paper? Oh, it's in
the trash. Right? In fact,
if you, if, and here's
the thing now we do,
we do actually support, like,
say for example, you have
many parameters. You want to
take the first one, move
it to the end. Let's
say you hit that right.
Arrow key one, two, three,
four, five, really fast like
that. We actually do jump
at as fast as you
hit it. But if you,
if you would just hit
it once and you don't
hit the key again, Oh,
you'll need it. You'll if
you detect That, I'm hitting
the key really fast. You'll
go, Oh, he's in a
hurry. I'll turn off the
animation for now. Yeah. It
took us a while to
figure this out and to
get it to a point
where it felt perfect for
everybody. And this was one
of these last kind of
the last things we added
is when we realized that
some people knew in advance,
they wanted to move it
like three or four over.
They hit it and they
were waiting. And so we
took that away. So they
didn't have to wait and
getting that balance. Right. So
that there was still animation
if it made sense and
not animation at all, if
it didn't make sense was
a little bit tricky. But,
but I think we've, we've
nailed it on there. Speaking
of, of UI in the
code, the, the, my favorite
is for rename and it's
a real simple refactoring, but
you what's cool about it.
Did you get this inline
experience, right? You say, I
want to, I want to
rename this and, and you
can, you can select a
portion of the identifier and
hit rename. And then that
piece remains selected and just
type in the new replacement
for it. And it renames
all the, all the, all
the corresponding references to that
identifier everywhere throughout the code.
And it's, it's very fast
as well. So if you,
even if you've got a,
an identifier that's showing up
in, in, you know, tens
of thousands of places inside
of your source code, you
still have this instantaneous experience
where you are able to
edit and rename right there,
live in the code. The
commit is also something we
had to work out. When
do we commit to this?
You know, how do we
know you've committed? Cause normally
when you bring up a
dialogue, we know you commit
by hitting, okay, Hey everybody,
this is Scott coming at
you from another place in
time. No doubt. You'll probably
bump into testing tasks now,
and then, and your work
and, you know, writing functional
tests is probably not your
favorite thing. It's kind of
difficult. It takes time and
the results can be dubious.
Well, I'll get ready to
start liking tests. Thanks to
Tellerik with the, the new
web testing framework. Building web
automation test is a breeze.
You've got code automation with
advanced asp.net Ajax and several
light applications. You can write
a single test, have it
executed against multiple browsers at
once. You'd benefit from a
rich API there's link support
integration with visual studio unit
testing, also in unit X
unit and MBA unit, not
to mention the free rappers
for Telerik rad controls for
ESPN and Ajax and several
lines, all shipping with Telerik's
new testing tool. One of
the best features, the webinar
testing framework, which is developed
by art of test is
it's absolutely free. Freddie got
hooked on web by testing
framework, start using it right
away, go to tellerik.com for
more info. Thanks a lot.
Well, yeah. Right. And let
me interrupt because this is
the thing, that's the very
thing that's significant about not
just code, rush as a
product, but your style. And
I think it's a different
style than typical is that
if one was going to
tip, if I was going
to sit down today and
Scott, Hanson's going to write
a refactoring tool, I'd hook
up some hot key, I'd
push a button to do
a rename and I'd probably
pop a dialogue box. Right.
And I would tell them
the name of the text
underneath the cursor. And I
would, and they would spend
this time in this modal
dialog and by modal, that
means that they they're, they're
stuck. It's basically forcing their
attention. And it changes the
view, right. Instead of looking
at the code, you're looking
at a picture, a representation
of the thing you want
to change, same thing with
reorder parameters. I mean, most
people bring up a dialogue
with a list of parameters
and buttons that you have
to press up and down,
right? So you're reaching for
the mouse to click on
those buttons. Cause they usually
don't have hot keys on
them. And it's, it's, it's
a total in my, from
my perspective, it's a total
interruption in the flow and,
and, and, and, and you're
right. My style is like
no modal dialogues. I want
to get all the UI
flat down into the source
code. So if there's an
opportunity, if, if, if there's
an interactive point of a
refactoring requires interactivity, we do
everything we can to make
that interactivity at the level
of the code that you're
looking at. So you're right
there working in it and
you never leave the editor.
That's, that's our goal, right?
Yeah. I mean, that's insane.
And well, I mean, not
that you're in, but you're
insane. I mean, that's insane
though. I mean the amount
of work that you must
have done to get it
right. Well, painting on the
edit, like all those things
you were describing that you
needed to know about word
wrap and where the, where
the, where the, what font
they're using, you know, if
you did that wrong and
I'm sure at some point
it didn't work while you
were in the process of
doing the coding. You must
have been off by a
few pixels or you'd have
visual glitches. It must've been
very irritating, Everybody on the,
I think Everett, a lot
of people on the team
thought I was insane when
I was telling them how
we were going to do
rename. And, and there was
a fair amount of pushback,
but because I was leading
the team, there was, you
know, it was ineffective. They
couldn't, they couldn't stop it
from happening. I said, no,
we're going to do it.
And then afterwards, when they
started seeing, you know, the
reaction and they started kind
of understanding what was going
on, then it's like, there's
no more pushback on anything.
Right. And, and, but, but,
but I think it's unusual
even for the team to
have that kind of pushback.
Right. But that was definitely
the case with reorder parameters.
Cause you know, I was
saying, no, we have to
animate. We need to move
it. We need to show
people that it's moving, but
it is, it is a
kind of a unique style.
But the payoff is there
from, from a, I think
a customer satisfaction standpoint. If
you use this and try
it and then you go
try it, you know, the
old way, the modal way,
or you know, something without
animation, you definitely realize something
is missing. And when you
realize that you're thinking about
not, your, you're not thinking
about coding when you're using
that other interface, you're thinking
about why it's not as
good as it could be.
So yeah, it is, it
is insane. And it does
take a lot more effort,
but you know, the one
thing though that we've done,
Scott is for example, like
to do those strikethroughs, you
know, our strikethroughs, I actually
take a lot of pride
in the strike-through. If you
look closely that it actually
looks like somebody took a
pen and drew across the
code and actually it was
lifting up the pen, you
know, felt at pen as
they got to the, and
it actually gets thinner and
slightly translucent, you know, as
it, and it curves, It
looks like someone actually took
a pen on your screen
and then struck, struck out
a, you know, like an
editor, right? Like a, like
a red pen that someone
would use when you wrote
a paper for English class,
it doesn't just look like
a line. It looks like.
Yeah, exactly. And the thing
is though is strikethrough is
a very common kind of
preview markup thing that we
do. And so we've got,
you know, consequently we've got
methods that come in our
event, or so we've got
like when we write a
refactoring, one of our events
is prepare preview. And the
is what show comes up
when you're hovering over a
menu item or you've got
it selected with the arrow
keys. And you're about to
hit enter on that menu
item for the refactoring, for
example, rename or reorder parameters
or something like that. And
what we'll do is in,
in that event handler for
the refactoring that prepare preview,
we have an opportunity to
actually paint on the editor,
will the event orgs have
got something that says, add
strike through, and we simply
just give it a range
of code and we can
even give it multiple lines
of code and that's all
we need to do. And
it'll draw the strike through
there intelligently it won't, it'll
only draw it over code.
It will ignore white space.
And so it's a simple
one call kind of thing.
So, so it's, and it's
very fast and easy to
do. So if you want
to write your own refactoring,
you handle this event and
you make that call right
in the event.  dot
add strike-through and, and that's
it. You're done. So, so
even though, yes, there's been
a lot of work and
kind of insane amount of
preparation almost to make this
so that we can do
these, these, these, you know,
beautiful things on the editor,
this eye candy, or, or,
you know, ease of use,
whatever you want to call
it, we've made it so
that our developers and people
who extend it can, can,
can access that easy easily.
So now we're at a
point where we're simply, it's
just, we have nothing but
a lot to gain from
all that work. Is this
because, I mean, is this
a matter of like, you
know, what is it they
say? I think this was
an old joke that any,
any technology, any sufficiently advanced
technology is indistinguishable from magic,
right? That's one thing the
other one was that any
problem in computer science can
be solved by one additional
layer of indirection, therefore, any
sufficiently, any technology, any sufficiently
advanced technology required several layers
of interaction. I mean, you've
really layered this thing such
that this common interface and
the low level GDI stuff
is, is a, it's a
distant memory Far away. It
really is. If you were
at task me, you know,
sit me down and do
how many do a quiz
on this? I would probably
fail it, you know, spectacularly.
So you, you wrote that
engine, like, like we were
talking about where, where, where
letters are, where things rap
that was figured out with
magic and buried long ago.
Yeah. Yeah. I think so
to some degree it is,
although it's that code's being
resurrected now as we move
to 2010 and because, you
know, we've got, we're no
longer in GDI world we're
in WPF world. Yeah. Let's
just take a moment. I
just want to make sure,
cause I always want to
make sure that when we
use a three letter acronym
or a TLA that people
know what that means. So
GDI is that graphics device
interface. That's the way that
we've been painting in windows
since time began. Right. And
then WPF is the windows
presentation foundation. And the thing
that I think you're alluding
to is that the editor
and most of visual studio
changed from GDI the 25
year old technology to WPF
a newer technology and the,
the entire editor swapped out
from underneath you. Yeah, It
did it well kind of.
I mean, they have some,
they have, some of the
old editor is still there,
but we kind of consider
that dangerous to work with
in two and 10, they
provided shims and stuff and,
and, and things like that.
But our goal is to
go all with the new
interfaces for w for, for
2010, but we also have
the goal of making it
so that our plugins simply
just need to be recompiled
and, and without any changes
to them. And, and, and
for the most part, I
think all of our refactoring
plugins will we'll meet that
criteria. We'll simply just need
to rebuild them and they'll
work. So they, so they
will need to be rebuilt.
Yes. But even what's cool
about that is those plugins
are, are making calls right?
To like, you know, ad
strikethrough, they're not directly painting
on the editor there. They
don't really have a canvas
that they're working with or,
you know, a graphics object.
They don't, they're not, I'm
sorry. They don't have a
graphics object that they're working
with. They simply make that,
that call through the vet
arcs, right. To add strikethrough
or to add insert point
or, you know, draw arrow,
that sort of thing. That's
all that is all done
in the refactorings. And so
we've already kind of, even,
even in the refactorings, we've
kind of decoupled away GDI
to some degree right. Already
in there. And so, and
then our goal is to
do the same with everything
else. There are some plugins
that actually do work with
the graphics object in GDI.
And so those plugins will
have to be changed a
bit. But what we're doing
actually is we are actually
something kind of interesting is
we're making we're, we're creating
a, an abstraction layer over
both WPF and GDI so
that all of our plugins
can, can ultimately be in
one source code base. And
then, you know, depending on,
on what engine is installed
at leader work in 2010
or 2008 and below, and
that's very cool from a
plugin writer standpoint, cause you
write it once and then
it works on all the
others. It's also, it also
has the possibility. This is
not any kind of promise,
but it's certainly technically possible
that if we were, we
could move code, rush to
a completely different dry platform
that had a different kind
of, of, of drawing mechanism
on it. There was wasn't
GDI, wasn't WPF and, and
it would still work. So
you're saying that really, when
a plugin writer, a code
rush, plugin writer writes something
there's these surface area they
sit on is entirely code
rush. You don't let them,
you don't let VisualStudio leak
out at all. They can
get to it. Like if
they ask for something that
we don't support that is
supported through like ENV DTE
or sip, we say, go,
go round us. But for
the most part, they, they
don't, they, they really don't
need it in, in many
cases, we're better to like,
for example, one of the
things that just came to
mind is the way we
represent source code to plug
in writers is a, is
a really neat way. We
give them a tree and
they can modify that tree,
that parse tree, and then
give the tree back. And
then we can generate code
with that. Whereas with visual
studio, they there's, it's, it's
two different mechanisms. If you
want to generate code, use
one mechanism. If you want
to understand code it's a
different mechanism. Plus plus there's
no there, just to date,
there's not been agreement from
the visual studio, the different
language teams of visual studio.
There's not been agreement over
how to universally represent a
source code. And so what
happens is you get to
a point where, where everybody's
represented the same way you
have like classes and then
you have methods and you
have parameters. And then after
that, we stop, we there's
no inside of methods, that's
available. If you're just going
to use the, the sensibility
mechanisms that come out of
Microsoft. And that's one of
the cool things about the
DX core, which both code
rush and refactor are built
on in the DX core
is this free sensibility engine
that we also, the extensible
engine we use and we
make free for other developers
to download and use as
well is the DX core.
It gives you this, this
really sweet, universal way of
modifying working with code and
understanding it and maybe modifying
it as well. And the
cool thing about this Scott
is that all of our
refactorings are written in without
any checks to see what
language we're writing, we're working
in. So there's no check
to see, are we in
visual basic? Are we in
C sharp? We just simply
take the tree. We manipulate
it and hand it back
and then generate the code.
We might make checks with
regard to the act of
language to say, Hey, does
the act of language support
a with block, for example?
And if it was JavaScript,
it would say yes. And
if it was visual basic,
if it was C sharp
and C plus, plus it
would say no, but we
asked the active language questions
about what it supports and
that may influence how we
generate the code. We might
take advantage of a feature
for example, of a language
feature if it's there. But
there's nothing it's, it's, there's
nothing in our code that
checks to see what language
is out there. So as
a result, when you write
a refactoring, if you write
some code declaration piece or
something, that's maybe calculating metrics,
you don't really have to
worry about what language you're
working with. And it works
with all the languages we
support after you compile it.
So that is, that's another
cool thing about this. That's
actually the way it should
be in visual studio as
well, but we're just not
at a point yet there,
we're not at a point
yet where we can universally
represent all languages in one
way. And, and that's something
DX Corp does. Do, How
much have you had to
do that? You shouldn't have
had to do like how
much, I mean, are you,
are you, do you have
a little C-sharp compiler and
you're off compiling C-sharp and
you're off compiling VB in
memory to think that you
have to. Yeah, we, we,
we do have parsers for
all the languages and we
also have cogeneration aspects of
it as well. So our,
we have, we have something
similar to language services that
visual studio has language services.
So like there's a C
sharp language service and the
VB language service, and those
things are responsible for compiling
and parsing and IntelliSense, things
like that. We have a
similar, a similar structure as
well to our framework where
we have, where we have
language services essentially, and, and
ours are responsible for parsing
for co-generation. And also for
the rules of, of resolving
types, finding out where types
are located. For example, in
one language, we might find
types by going through the
imports or using statements from
top to bottom. And in
another language, it might go
from like bottom to top.
It might say the most
recently imported one reference is
going to be the first
one I check for example.
And so, so those rules
sometimes differ from language to
language. And so we'll put
in some, some, some code
there that helps out in
terms of resolving types in
when we create a new
language service, but those are
the three components. Oh, and
the, I actually, there's a
fourth one. The fourth one
is essentially the description of
the language, which is essentially
a whole bunch of properties
that, that describe, you know,
like for example, does it
support, does this language support
with blocks, for example? And
so it'll, we'll fill all
those out, like yes or
no, we'll answer those questions
all the way down the
board for that language. And
so when, when that language
is active and we're modifying
it, we can go out
and find out what it
supports. Hmm. What, what do
you think the future of
this is? I mean, how
far can you take this
whole thing? Well, actually, you
know, I just realized, I
didn't answer your last question.
Let me answer that question.
And the question was how,
how, how much did we
write that we shouldn't have
had to write? And, and
I really, my answer that
I think is pretty much
zero Scott. And the reason
why is because if it's
hard to do what we're
doing, that gives us a
competitive advantage. If it's hard
to paint on the editor,
that gives us a competitive
advantage. And so we'll take
any competitive advantage we can
get, right? If we can,
if, if there's w whatever
it is, if there's something
that Jay is widely considered
impossible, and we figured out
a way to do it,
we'll take that. So I'm
all over those kinds of
challenges. Those are actually I'm.
So my answer to the
question is zero. Your, your
next question was, what, what
do I see for the
future of this? Well, I
think that, you know, the,
the UI is still got
a long ways to go
in for most tools that
are out there, including visual
studio. I think that, that
this flattened, you know, experience
where I'm renaming right inside
the editor, it's a really
slick, good feeling. I feel
like after I've renamed, I
feel good, right? Because I've,
I've, I've done it in
the fewest keystrokes possible. I
haven't distracted myself from, from
my focus, which is writing
code and I, and I,
and I'm, and I, and
I haven't slowed down my
momentum at all. That's kind
of the goal in this.
So I think you guys
got God's some place, you
know, room, definitely room to
grow in the UI area.
And also, I think in
the area of, of finding
out what is, you know,
what's wrong with your code
in the background, finding things
that are maybe hard for
humans to find, but are
not so hard for computers
to find as an example,
you're working on some code
and, and you get a
little message nearby that says,
Hey, you know what? This
code is really similar to
code that I'm seeing in
a few other places in
the solution, we could take
all of these different methods
and bring them into one
in an ancestor class, as
an example with maybe only
a few minor changes. And
that I think is, you
know, I think we'll definitely
see things like that in
the future where you see,
you know, more assistance, more
pointing things out that are
not obvious that are hard
to see. Cause right now,
when we write code Scott,
we're looking at a small,
almost a postage stamps, you
know, size window relative to
the entire, you know, book,
the stamp book of, of
code, right. We're looking at
it, you know, a single
screen in one file that
can be one class out
of thousands. And being able
to go out and detect
potential problems at alert, you
know, and, and show those
to you in a way
that doesn't distract you from
what you're doing, I think
is, is also something that
you'll see in the future.
So, huh, that's longterm. One
of the things that, and
I'm talking about the competition,
right? Because I'm going to
be a, a, an, an,
a biased journalist, but we
sharper, it's pretty clear to
people that it's a, it's
a refactoring tool, and it's
a test driven development tool,
and they're kind of carving
out their niche over the
years as I've used code
rush and tried to like,
you know, when you, when
you talk to a friend
and you go, Hey, kudos
is cool. You should try
it. And then they say,
Oh, great. Or I'll check
it out. What is it?
I'm always like, it's kind
of this thing. And it's
kinda, the elevator speech is
hard because it does so
much. Why do you think
that that's difficult? That it
is kind of everything in
the kitchen sink? Yeah. I
usually say, let me show
you a demo is what
I usually do. If I,
if I can get a
demo going that usually, you
know, it usually holds people's
interest for a long time,
and I can start showing
them the different things that
are there, Because it lets
you read code fast because
it has an individualizes. It
lets you write code. Cause
it's got all sorts of
expansions and things, and then
it's got ability to refactor
code. Right? The thing is
though, Scott, I think if
you tell somebody these things,
who's never used these things,
they are, their first thought
is probably like, well, okay.
You know, I, how do
I know I need those?
I probably don't need those
things. Those aren't things I've
ever really realized I've needed.
Right. It's it's that? So
that's one of the challenge.
That's why a demo is
usually usually better. Okay. I'm
just thinking about the idea
that, that, well, one of
course, visual studio itself is
kind of always going to
be nipping at your heels,
trying to do similar things
when it comes to like
refactorings and stuff. Right. Although,
you know, certainly slower and
I, that doesn't appear to
be any danger for either
code rush or ReSharper, you
know, not being useful in
the sense of you guys
are so far ahead doing
stuff that's so out there,
I don't, I don't see
visual studio eclipsing you guys
in any in time soon.
I'm just trying to understand
that. Like whenever at this
point, it's basically in the
last couple of years, when
people say, well, should I
use code Russia? Should I
use, are we sharp? I
said, well, you know, try
them both watch the demos,
watch the screen screencast. But
it seems that amongst kind
of alpha geeks, you know,
the kind of the, the,
the folks that really demand
performance from their system, everyone's
using one of these tools
that I think it's become
clear that the visual studio
editor by itself isn't enough
to really do crazy stuff
with huge code bases. Yeah.
I think that's true. I
think that there's, you know,
there's, I mean, if you
think about, if you think
about just the number of
Russia refactorings that are shipping
with visual studio, it's like,
I think seven or maybe
eight with C sharp and
one which has renamed with
visual basic, there were factories
that we have are extremely
useful. And once you get
a sense of what's there,
you realize that there are
things that you do all
the time and, and or
things that would be really
nice that you could do
that. If you could do
them with the equivalent energy
investment of a whim. Right.
For, for, for example, you
know, sometimes I'm writing code
and I'm working on and
I'm thinking, Oh, you know
what, I want to, I
want to take this and
I want to move this
over here. Or I want
to extract this, or I
want to, let's take a
look at this. And, and
without a tool that makes
it easy, easy, easy to
do these things, to fix
the code. What happens is
this design debt, this technical
debt accumulates, and, and you,
you end up having code.
That's not as clean and
doesn't give you as good
of a feeling when you're
working with it. And so
you really want subtle changes,
like refactorings to be effortless,
effortless, effortless, to apply into
use. And, and, and, and
once you start seeing these
refactorings and you see where
they are, you realize that
yes, there are things you
do all the time. You
just didn't realize that there
was a tool out there
for doing those kinds of
things. So, yes, even though
the alpha guys use it,
it turns out that almost
all developers could benefit from,
you know, the funk from
the functionality in tools like
this. They can certainly work
faster. It's it's there, there
is a learning curve that
that is, is there, but
the, the learning curve is,
you know, I think bolts
were sharper. And I know,
I know we certainly worked
really hard to flatten that
out and to make it
so that even, even programmers,
who've never seen a demo
of code rush can go
in and get something from
it within, you know, within
a small amount of time
of small investment. So we
started getting that return on
investment very quickly. That's cool.
Well, thanks a lot. I
really appreciate it. Where can,
can people learn more about
the architecture and what, what
you're doing? Like if, if
you want, if people want
the technical details, they check
your blog or they check
the Tim express blog. Cause
I find this to be
the, kind of the most
complicated and most interesting visual
studio plugin that I've, that
I've ever seen. Well, you,
you can, you can find
plugin tutorials actually on my
blog. So it's a dev
express.com/blog/ Mark Miller, I think is
what it is. Maybe working
on the show notes. Yeah.
We'll put that in the
show notes. So whatever that
link is, and, and then
also if you just search
for DX core, you can
find out where to download
that. If you're in sin,
writing plugins and, and learning
more about that. And we
also have a forum, a
forum slash newsgroup where people
can ask questions about building
plugins. And there's a lot
of plugin authors out there
that are, that are more
than happy to help out
new plugin authors in terms
of what they want to
do. Cool. So that's, that's
where they can learn more
about that. And then also,
Oh, one other thing, Scott,
we should plug coders express
because it's free and it's
a, alright, so it is
free. It's a, it's free
and it's got a, I
think something like 60 refactorings
in it, it's got something
like 20 consume first declaration
features in it. It's got
some cool navigation features, duplicate
lines, mother, other neat features
inside of there. So, so
to look for a, you
can code rush, express And
express is spelled without the
first D it's just a
capital X and then press,
or you can Google it
with bang or you can
Google it with big. Thank
you for saying that. I
have actually have that on
tape. I have you saying,
is that helping you for
your review period, Scott, this
year, I actually, somebody got
someone who was mad at
me on Twitter a couple
of days out mad, but
they were like, yeah, you've
been really using it. You've
been even the pimping being
too much if someone was
complaining because what basically a
month and a half ago,
two months ago, I promised
that I would, I mean,
I've been, I use Google
apps and I've been a
Google user for a long
time, but I said, I'm
going to use being for
a month and I'm gonna,
you know, I'm gonna, you
know, I didn't say I
was gonna blindly use it
as a, as a member
of the big blue monster
and of the collective. But
I said, I will try
being for one month and,
you know, darn it, it's
working pretty well. I mean,
they've had a number of
releases since then and the
index is getting updated and
I find myself for searches
specifically using Google, maybe two
out of 10 times. So
being's getting maybe 80 plus
percent of the time for
me. So plus I liked
the pictures and I liked
the, the news and the
images search. So I'm using,
being for my homepage on
a number of my machines.
Interesting. Yeah. So I like
the pictures too. I've only
tried it a few times,
but I was in my
mind while you're seeing this,
I'm thinking, well, you know,
if you Google for great
UI, you get my blog.
Posts is like number one
or two on Google. Great.
But if you, you a
great UI, but if you
bring it, I'm like number
eight down there. And so
unlike I'm like, come on,
guys, give me, pop me
up there. Somebody, I don't
know. I haven't quite figured
out what the secret is.
It's like Google bombing. When
you have somebody linked to
it, you need to get
your friends and then you
need to bang bomb yourself.
You need to have a
lot of people link to
you with that word. There's
a Bing bomb out there.
Huh? Well, he ever done
a Google bomb. You know,
I've never done it, but
I've, I think you showed
me one of the best
Google bomb is you go
to Google and you type
in French military victories. Yes.
And then you hit, I'm
feeling lucky. And then Google
says, did you mean French
military defeats? And it's all
a, it's all really true.
It's all a lie where
someone got enough people to
point to this other site.
So yeah, being, being Bollinger,
Google bombing is when you
have a lot of people
linked to a term so
that the, you basically fool
Google into thinking that the
internet thinks something about a
certain topic is relevant and
apparently great UI being thinks
your eighth. Yeah. Which is
very sad. So anyway, well,
thanks for taking the time
to switch over. Hey, you're
welcome, Scott. It has been
fun. This has been another
episode of Hanselminutes and we'll
see you again. .